[DX-1111, TT-11273] Update documentation for 5.0 LTS (#4153)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/shared/x-tyk-gateway.md

**Field: `xPathExp` (`string`)**
XPathExp is the xpath expression to match ID.

### **OAuthProvider**

**Field: `jwt` ([JWTValidation](#jwtvalidation))**

**Field: `introspection` ([Introspection](#introspection))**

### **JWTValidation**

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled enables OAuth access token validation by introspection to a third party.

**Field: `signingMethod` (`string`)**
SigningMethod to verify signing method used in jwt - allowed values HMAC/RSA/ECDSA.

**Field: `source` (`string`)**
Source is the secret to verify signature, it could be one among:
- a base64 encoded static secret,
- a valid JWK url in plain text,
- a valid JWK url in base64 encoded format.

**Field: `identityBaseField` (`string`)**
IdentityBaseField is the identity claim name.

**Field: `issuedAtValidationSkew` (`uint64`)**
IssuedAtValidationSkew is the clock skew to be considered while validating iat claim.

**Field: `notBeforeValidationSkew` (`uint64`)**
NotBeforeValidationSkew is the clock skew to be considered while validating nbf claim.

**Field: `expiresAtValidationSkew` (`uint64`)**
ExpiresAtValidationSkew is the clock skew to be considered while validating exp claim.

> ### **Introspection**

Reviewer: Missing summary description. Is there Tyk Classic equivalent config fields that can be added to this section?

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled enables OAuth access token validation by introspection to a third party.

**Field: `url` (`string`)**
URL is the URL of the third party provider's introspection endpoint.

**Field: `clientId` (`string`)**
ClientID is the public identifier for the client, acquired from the third party.

**Field: `clientSecret` (`string`)**

> ClientSecret is a secret known only to the client and the authorization server, acquired from the third party.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ClientSecret is a secret known only to the client and the authorisation server, acquired from the third party.
```

**Field: `identityBaseField` (`string`)**

> IdentityBaseField is the key showing where to find the user id in the claims. If it is empty, the `sub` key is looked at.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IdentityBaseField is the key for the field in the claims that contains the user id. If it is empty, the default behaviour is to inspect the `sub` key.
```

**Field: `cache` ([IntrospectionCache](#introspectioncache))**

> Cache is the caching mechanism for introspection responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cache is the caching mechanism that is used for introspection responses.
```

> ### **IntrospectionCache**

Reviewer: Missing summary description. Is there Tyk Classic equivalent config fields that can be added to this section?

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled enables the caching mechanism for introspection responses.

**Field: `timeout` (`int64`)**

> Timeout is the duration in seconds of how long the cached value stays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Timeout represents the duration in seconds for how long a values remains in the cache.
```

For introspection caching, it is suggested to use a short interval.

> ### **ExternalOAuth**

Reviewer: Missing summary description and field descriptions.

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**

**Field: `providers` ([[]OAuthProvider](#oauthprovider))**

### **EndpointPostPlugins**

Type defined as array of `EndpointPostPlugin` values, see [EndpointPostPlugin](#endpointpostplugin) definition.

### **Allowance**

Allowance describes allowance actions and behaviour.

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled is a boolean flag, if set to `true`, then individual allowances (allow, block, ignore) will be enforced.

**Field: `ignoreCase` (`boolean`)**
IgnoreCase is a boolean flag, If set to `true`, checks for requests allowance will be case insensitive.

### **AllowanceType**

> AllowanceType holds the valid allowance types values.

Reviewer: Could this be expanded to mention the valid type of allowance values?

> ### **AuthSource**

Reviewer: Is there Tyk Classic equivalent fields that can be included?

AuthSource defines an authentication source.

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled enables the auth source.

Tyk classic API definition: `auth_configs[X].use_param/use_cookie`.

**Field: `name` (`string`)**
Name is the name of the auth source.

Tyk classic API definition: `auth_configs[X].param_name/cookie_name`.

### **AuthSources**

AuthSources defines authentication source configuration: headers, cookies and query parameters.

Tyk classic API definition: `auth_configs{}`.

**Field: `header` ([AuthSource](#authsource))**
Header contains configurations for the header value auth source, it is enabled by default.

Tyk classic API definition: `auth_configs[x].header`.

**Field: `cookie` ([AuthSource](#authsource))**
Cookie contains configurations for the cookie value auth source.

Tyk classic API definition: `auth_configs[x].cookie`.

**Field: `query` ([AuthSource](#authsource))**
Query contains configurations for the query parameters auth source.

Tyk classic API definition: `auth_configs[x].query`.

### **Basic**

> Basic type holds configuration values related to http basic authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basic type holds configuration values related to HTTP basic authentication.
```

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled enables the basic authentication mode.

Tyk classic API definition: `use_basic_auth`.

**Field: `disableCaching` (`boolean`)**
DisableCaching disables the caching of basic authentication key.

Tyk classic API definition: `basic_auth.disable_caching`.

**Field: `cacheTTL` (`int`)**
CacheTTL is the TTL for a cached basic authentication key in seconds.

Tyk classic API definition: `basic_auth.cache_ttl`.

**Field: `extractCredentialsFromBody` ([ExtractCredentialsFromBody](#extractcredentialsfrombody))**

> ExtractCredentialsFromBody helps to extract username and password from body. In some cases, like dealing with SOAP,

Reviewer: Does this have a Tyk Classic equivalent and can the line break be removed?

user credentials can be passed via request body.

### **CachePlugin**

CachePlugin holds the configuration for the cache plugins.

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled is a boolean flag. If set to `true`, the advanced caching plugin will be enabled.

**Field: `cacheByRegex` (`string`)**
CacheByRegex defines a regular expression used against the request body to produce a cache key.

Example value: `\"id\":[^,]*` (quoted json value).

**Field: `cacheResponseCodes` (`[]int`)**
CacheResponseCodes contains a list of valid response codes for responses that are okay to add to the cache.

### **EndpointPostPlugin**

EndpointPostPlugin contains endpoint level post plugin configuration.

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled enables post plugin.

**Field: `name` (`string`)**
Name is the name of plugin function to be executed.

**Field: `path` (`string`)**

> Path is the path to plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Path is the path to the plugin.
```

### **EnforceTimeout**

EnforceTimeout holds the configuration for enforcing request timeouts.

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled is a boolean flag. If set to `true`, requests will enforce a configured timeout.

**Field: `value` (`int`)**
Value is the configured timeout in seconds.

### **ExtractCredentialsFromBody**

ExtractCredentialsFromBody configures extracting credentials from the request body.

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled enables extracting credentials from body.

Tyk classic API definition: `basic_auth.extract_from_body`.

**Field: `userRegexp` (`string`)**

> UserRegexp is the regex for username e.g. `<User>(.*)</User>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UserRegexp is the regex used to extract the username e.g. `<User>(.*)</User>`.
```

Tyk classic API definition: `basic_auth.userRegexp`.

**Field: `passwordRegexp` (`string`)**

> PasswordRegexp is the regex for password e.g. `<Password>(.*)</Password>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PasswordRegexp is the regex used to extract the password e.g. `<Password>(.*)</Password>`.
```

Tyk classic API definition: `basic_auth.passwordRegexp`.

> ### **FieldDocError**

Reviewer: Should this type be FieldDocErrors or FieldDocErrorList?

> FieldDocError holds a list of errors.

Reviewer: How is the list of errors used?

### **FieldInfo**

> FieldInfo holds details about a field.

Reviewer: What does the field relate to (JSON, database, header field etc.) and are there Tyk classic equivalents that can be included in this section?

**Field: `doc` (`string`)**
Doc is field docs. comments that are not part of docs are excluded.

**Field: `json_name` (`string`)**
JSONName is the corresponding json name of the field.

**Field: `json_type` (`string`)**
JSONType valid json type if it was found

**Field: `go_path` (`string`)**
GoPath is the go path of this field starting from root object

**Field: `map_key` (`string`)**
MapKey is the map key type, if this field is a map

**Field: `is_array` (`boolean`)**
IsArray reports if this field is an array.

### **FromOASExamples**

> FromOASExamples configures mock responses should be returned from OAS example responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FromOASExamples configures mock responses to be returned using OAS example responses.
```

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled enables getting a mock response from OAS examples or schemas documented in OAS.

**Field: `code` (`int`)**
Code is the default HTTP response code that the gateway reads from the path responses documented in OAS.

**Field: `contentType` (`string`)**
ContentType is the default HTTP response body type that the gateway reads from the path responses documented in OAS.

**Field: `exampleName` (`string`)**
ExampleName is the default example name among multiple path response examples documented in OAS.

> ### **Header**

Reviewer: Is there Tyk classic equivalents than can be included?

Header holds a header name and value pair.

**Field: `name` (`string`)**
Name is the name of the header.

**Field: `value` (`string`)**
Value is the value of the header.

### **JWT**

JWT holds the configuration for the JWT middleware.

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**

**Field: `source` (`string`)**

**Field: `signingMethod` (`string`)**

**Field: `identityBaseField` (`string`)**

**Field: `skipKid` (`boolean`)**

**Field: `policyFieldName` (`string`)**

**Field: `clientBaseField` (`string`)**

**Field: `scopes` ([Scopes](#scopes))**

**Field: `defaultPolicies` (`[]string`)**

**Field: `issuedAtValidationSkew` (`uint64`)**

**Field: `notBeforeValidationSkew` (`uint64`)**

**Field: `expiresAtValidationSkew` (`uint64`)**

**Field: `idpClientIdMappingDisabled` (`boolean`)**

> IDPClientIDMappingDisabled prevents Tyk from automatically detecting the use of certain IDPs based on standard claims

Reviewer: Can the line breaks be avoided?

that they include in the JWT: `client_id`, `cid`, `clientId`. Setting this flag to `true` disables the mapping and avoids
accidentally misidentifying the use of one of these IDPs if one of their standard values is configured in your JWT.

> ### **MockResponse**

Reviewer: Are there Tyk Classic equivalent fields that can be included in this section?

MockResponse configures the mock responses.

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled enables the mock response middleware.

**Field: `code` (`int`)**
Code is the HTTP response code that will be returned.

**Field: `body` (`string`)**
Body is the HTTP response body that will be returned.

**Field: `headers` ([[]Header](#header))**
Headers are the HTTP response headers that will be returned.

**Field: `fromOASExamples` ([FromOASExamples](#fromoasexamples))**
FromOASExamples is the configuration to extract a mock response from OAS documentation.

### **Notifications**

Notifications holds configuration for updates to keys.

**Field: `sharedSecret` (`string`)**
SharedSecret is the shared secret used in the notification request.

**Field: `onKeyChangeUrl` (`string`)**
OnKeyChangeURL is the URL a request will be triggered against.

> ### **OAuth**

Reviewer: Missing field descriptions

**Field: `virtualEndpoint` ([VirtualEndpoint](#virtualendpoint))**
VirtualEndpoint contains virtual endpoint configuration.

**Field: `postPlugins` ([EndpointPostPlugins](#endpointpostplugins))**
PostPlugins contains endpoint level post plugins configuration.

> ### **Path**

Reviewer: Missing field descriptions

Path holds plugin configurations for HTTP method verbs.

**Field: `DELETE` ([Plugins](#plugins))**

**Field: `GET` ([Plugins](#plugins))**

**Field: `HEAD` ([Plugins](#plugins))**

**Field: `OPTIONS` ([Plugins](#plugins))**

**Field: `PATCH` ([Plugins](#plugins))**

**Field: `POST` ([Plugins](#plugins))**

**Field: `PUT` ([Plugins](#plugins))**

**Field: `TRACE` ([Plugins](#plugins))**

**Field: `CONNECT` ([Plugins](#plugins))**

### **Paths**

Paths is a mapping of API endpoints to Path plugin configurations.

Type defined as object of `Path` values, see [Path](#path) definition.

### **Plugins**

> Plugins configures common settings for each plugin, allowances, transforms, caching and timeouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugins configures common settings for each plugin, relating to allowances, transforms, caching and timeouts.
```

**Field: `allow` ([Allowance](#allowance))**
Allow request by allowance.

**Field: `block` ([Allowance](#allowance))**
Block request by allowance.

**Field: `ignoreAuthentication` ([Allowance](#allowance))**
Ignore authentication on request by allowance.

**Field: `transformRequestMethod` ([TransformRequestMethod](#transformrequestmethod))**
TransformRequestMethod allows you to transform the method of a request.

**Field: `cache` ([CachePlugin](#cacheplugin))**
Cache allows you to cache the server side response.

**Field: `enforcedTimeout` ([EnforceTimeout](#enforcetimeout))**
EnforceTimeout allows you to configure a request timeout.

### **SecurityScheme**

SecurityScheme defines an Importer interface for security schemes.

### **Signature**

Signature holds the configuration for signature validation.

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**

**Field: `algorithm` (`string`)**

**Field: `header` (`string`)**

**Field: `query` ([AuthSource](#authsource))**

**Field: `secret` (`string`)**

**Field: `allowedClockSkew` (`int64`)**

**Field: `errorCode` (`int`)**

**Field: `errorMessage` (`string`)**

> ### **StructInfo**

Reviewer: Should this type be included? Is a type related to config docs generation using godoc?

**Field: `body` (`string`)**
Body base64 encoded representation of the template.

### **TransformRequestMethod**

TransformRequestMethod holds configuration for rewriting request methods.

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled enables Method Transform for the given path and method.

**Field: `toMethod` (`string`)**
ToMethod is the http method value to which the method of an incoming request will be transformed.

> ### **TykExtensionConfigParams**

Reviewer: Missing field descriptions

TykExtensionConfigParams holds the essential configuration required for the Tyk Extension schema.

**Field: `UpstreamURL` (`string`)**

**Field: `ListenPath` (`string`)**

**Field: `CustomDomain` (`string`)**

**Field: `ApiID` (`string`)**

**Field: `Authentication` (`boolean`)**

**Field: `AllowList` (`boolean`)**

**Field: `ValidateRequest` (`boolean`)**

**Field: `MockResponse` (`boolean`)**

### **ValidateRequest**

ValidateRequest holds configuration required for validating requests.

**Field: `enabled` (`boolean`)**
Enabled is a boolean flag, if set to `true`, it enables request validation.

**Field: `errorResponseCode` (`int`)**
ErrorResponseCode is the error code emitted when the request fails validation.

> If unset or zero, the response will returned with http status 422 Unprocessable Entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If unset or zero, the response will returned with HTTP status 422 Unprocessable Entity.
```

**Field: `requireSession` (`boolean`)**
RequireSession if enabled passes session to virtual endpoint.

> ### **XTykDoc**

Reviewer: Should this section be included? Is it specific to godoc generation?

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/pull/6089 Proposal to resolve, needs a review
